Through His Son, the Father created all heavenly beings. "For by Him all things were created..... whether thrones, whether dominions, whether rulerships, whether authorities, whether powers, all things were created by Him and for Him" (Col. 1:16).

Angels - the ministering spirits of God, surrounded by the shining light coming from the presence of the Lord, hasten on swift wings to do His will.

And they are commanded by the Son, the Anointed of God, "being the radiance of glory and the image of His hypostasis, and holding all things by the word of His power" (Heb. 1:3). "The throne of glory, exalted from the beginning," was the place of His sanctuary (Jer. 17:12); "the rod of righteousness" was the rod of His kingdom (Heb. 1:8). "Glory and majesty are before His face, power and splendor in His sanctuary" (Ps. 95:6). "Grace and truth are set before His face" (Ps. 88:15).

The government of God rests upon the law of love, and therefore the happiness of all rational beings depends upon full harmony with the great principle of justice.

God desires that all creatures created by Him should serve Him out of love, and that this service should be conditioned by an understanding of His nature.

He takes no joy in forced obedience to Himself.

Everyone has been given free will so that people can voluntarily serve Him.

As long as all created beings recognized the justice of the law of love, perfect harmony reigned throughout the universe.

The fulfillment of the Creator's will brought joy to the heavenly host.

They found the highest pleasure in reflecting His glory and glorifying His name.

As they loved God above all things, they treated each other with sincere friendliness and unselfishness.

Not a false sound disturbed the heavenly harmony.

But there came a change in this happy kingdom.

Someone abused the freedom given by God to all creatures and rebelled.

Sin originated in the one who, after Christ, was exalted by God above all others, who possessed the highest power and glory among all the heavenly beings.

Lucifer, "son of the dawn," "holy and blameless," was the first among the overshadowing cherubim.

He was at the side of the great Creator, and the enduring rays of glory surrounding the eternal God illumined him. "Thus says the Lord God: you are the seal of perfection, the fullness of wisdom, and the crown of beauty.

You were in Eden, in the garden of God; your garments were adorned with all kinds of precious stones..... Thou wast anointed a cherub to overshadow, and I have set thee to do so; thou wast on the holy mountain of God, walking among the fiery stones.

Thou hast been perfect in thy ways from the day of thy creation, until iniquity was found in thee" (Ezekiel 28:12-15).

Gradually, Lucifer nurtured a desire for self-aggrandizement.

The Scripture says: "From your beauty your heart became proud, from your vanity you destroyed your wisdom" (Ezekiel 28:17). "He said in his heart, "...above the stars of God I will exalt my throne..... I will be like the Most High'" (Isaiah 14:13, 14)." Although the glory surrounding him came from God, this mighty angel began to look upon it as his own.

Dissatisfied with his position, even though he was exalted above all the celestials, Lucifer dared to seek the glory befitting the Creator alone.

Instead of directing the attention, love, and loyalty of all heavenly beings toward God, he sought to compel them to serve himself faithfully.

Desiring the glory with which the infinite Lord has surrounded His Son, this prince of angels sought the power that belongs to Christ alone.